
# Chatbot Class

The `Chatbot` class is the core of the OrionBot library. It provides the functionality to train a bot with sample text data and to respond to user input with an appropriate response.

## Setup

To use the `Chatbot` class, you will need to import it from the `orionbot` library:
```python
from orionbot import Chatbot
```

Once you have imported the `Chatbot` class, you can create a new instance of it like this:

```python
bot = Chatbot(name='MyBot')
```

## Parameters

The `Chatbot` class constructor takes the following parameters:

-   `name` (optional): A name for the chatbot instance. This will be used to identify the chatbot in messages and logs. Default: `'Chatbot'`
-   `lemmatizer` (optional): An instance of the `nltk.stem.WordNetLemmatizer` class to be used for word lemmatization during text preprocessing. Default: `None`
-   `stopwords` (optional): A set of stop words to be removed during text preprocessing. If not provided, a default set of English stop words will be used from the `nltk.corpus` package. Default: `None`
-   `data_file` (optional): A path to a JSON file containing training data. If the file exists, its contents will be loaded into the `training_data` attribute. Default: `'training_data_qbot.json'`
-   `similarity_threshold` (optional): A threshold for the cosine similarity between user input and training data for a response to be considered a match. Default: `0.5`
-   `no_response_message` (optional): The message to be returned when the chatbot is unable to generate a response. Default: `"I'm sorry, I did not understand what you just said. What should I have said?"`

## Methods

The `Chatbot` class has the following methods:

### `train(input_text: str, response_text: str)`

Train the chatbot with the provided input text and response text.

-   `input_text`: A string containing the input text.
-   `response_text`: A string containing the response text.

### `get_response(input_text: str)`

Get a response from the chatbot for the provided input text.

-   `input_text`: A string containing the input text.

Returns a string containing the response generated by the chatbot.

### `enable_training()`

Enable training mode for the chatbot. It will prompt the user for feedback when the bot cannot find a suitable response for the message.

### `disable_training()`
 
 Disables training mode for the chatbot. It will send the "No Response" message, without prompting the user to provide an answer for the bot to remember.
 
### `_preprocess(text: str)`
 Preprocesses the provided text, cleans it up and makes it easier to understand for the bot
 - `text`: A string containing the input text.
 
 Returns a string, cleaned up and optimized for the bot.

### `set_no_response_message(message: str)`

Sets the message, sent by the bot when no suitable answer has been found for the user text.

- `message` A string containing the "No Response" message.

### `train_from_file(file_path: str)`

Traines the bot from an existing JSON dataset, provided by the user.

- `file_path`: A string containing the path for the JSON dataset the bot will be trained from.

### `train_from_default_file()`

Trains the bot from the default dataset, which can also be specified in the class instance.

## Table of Contents
 
 - [Training Guide](TRAINING.md)
 - [The Chatbot class](CHATBOTCLASS.md)
 - [Preprocessing Method](PREPROCESSING.md)
 - [Training Method](TRAINMETHOD.md)
 - [Train from an existing dataset](DATASETTRAINING.md)
 - [Training Mode](TRAININGMODE.md)
 - ["No Response Message"](NORESPONSE.md)